ARTICLE I
					        NAME
The name of this organization shall be the Student Government Association of Rose-Hulman Institute of Technology.

ARTICLE II
					    PREAMBLE
The Student Government Association is an organization that helps provide Rose-Hulman students with opportunities to be involved on campus and helps in meaningful ways via leadership, club sponsoring, and the ability to make valuable changes to the Rose community. We, the students of Rose-Hulman Institute of Technology, establish this Constitution that outlines the rules and procedures that will guide the Student Government Association.


ARTICLE III
					THE EXECUTIVE
SECTION 1: Executive Powers
The Executive powers shall be, at all times, and vested in the Executive Board, which shall consist of the Executive Officers. The Executive Board shall have general supervision of the affairs of the Student Government Association and make recommendations to the Student Senate when necessary.
SECTION 2: Executive Officers
The Executive Officers shall consist of one President and one Vice President, to be elected by the Student Body of Rose-Hulman Institute of Technology as hereinafter set out; one Secretary, one Treasurer, and one Executive Director to be appointed by the President as hereinafter set out.
SECTION 3: Terms of Office
The term of the Executive Officers shall begin on the first day of the spring quarter following their election and shall last until the new officers take their positions.
SECTION 4: Duties and Powers of the Executive Officers
A.	The duties and powers of the PRESIDENT shall be as follows:
1.	The President shall serve as chairman of the Executive Board.
2.	The President may call, and preside at, meetings of the general assembly of the Student Body.
3.	The President shall represent the Student Body at all functions, on all occasions, and all ceremonies where such representation shall be deemed necessary, required, or desired.
4.	The President shall administer and enforce all laws and regulations of the Student Government Association.
5.	The President shall appoint all Executives Officers, with the exception of the Vice President elected. The selections shall be from members of the Student Body at large and shall be subject to approval of a majority of the Student Senate.
6.	The President shall make recommendations for legislation or other action to the Student Senate.
7.	The President will address the Student Senate at times as the executive members shall deem necessary or upon request by the Student Senate.
8.	The President shall supervise, instruct, assist, and require reports from all committees and shall establish and/or approve all policies made by them.
9.	The President shall, with discretion, remove any officer and agents that have been appointed.
10.	The President shall approve, or veto, in writing to the Student Senate, all acts of the Senate and/or the amendments to the constitution and by-laws proposed or enacted by that Body.
i.	Any approval or veto must be made in writing within ten school days of passage by the Student Senate.
ii.	If the President does not veto or approve such act within the specified time, the act shall be considered law.
iii.	A veto by the President may be overridden by a two-thirds vote of the Senate within 10 school days of the veto. If no override occurs within the time allowed, the veto is considered successful.

B.	The duties and powers of the VICE PRESIDENT shall be as follows:
1.	The Vice President shall assume and perform all duties of the President if the President is absent or incapacitated for any reason.
2.	The Vice President shall have the power to organize meetings of the Student Senate.
3.	The Vice President shall serve as presiding officer of all Student Senate meetings.
4.	The Vice President shall appoint all committees other than standing committees of the Student Senate, which must be approved by a majority of the Student Senate.
5.	The Vice President shall fill all vacancies in the Student Senate with the approval of the President and the Student Senate.
6.	The Vice President shall be the primary reference pertaining to the constitution and the by-laws of the Student Government Association.
7.	The Vice President shall, at the beginning of each academic  year, distribute information to all members of the Student Senate pertaining to the rules of parliamentary procedure, Robert’s Rules of Order Newly Revised, and the constitution and by-laws of the Student Government Association.
8.	The Vice President shall represent the Student Government Association on a national and state level.
9.	The Vice President shall receive all nonfinancial requests by clubs and organizations to come before the Student Senate at least one week prior to the requested Senate Meeting.


C.	The duties of the SECRETARY shall be as follows:
1.	The Secretary shall keep the minutes and records of all official meetings of the Student Senate, the Executive Board, and all other official Student Government Association affiliated meetings.
2.	The Secretary shall make available an electronic copy of the minutes to the Student Senate and officers of the Student Government Association within one week of the meeting at which the minutes were taken.
3.	The Secretary shall keep the Student Senate’s official membership roll and call roll at the beginning of each Student Senate meeting.
4.	The Secretary shall keep a separate record of all resolutions and rules made at any time for the Student Senate.
5.	The Secretary shall keep the Student Government Association My.Rose-Hulman page updated at all times with the revised minutes, members, committees, and all official records deemed necessary by the Executive Board.
6.	The Secretary shall be responsible for revising the constitution and by-laws of the Student Government Association when an amendment, constitutional change, or formatting changes are approved by the Student Senate.
7.	 The Secretary shall be in charge of all administrative duties assigned by the President or the Vice President.

D.	The duties of the TREASURER shall be as follows:
1.	The Treasurer shall serve as the chairman of the Finance Committee.
2.	The Treasurer shall maintain an accurate and complete knowledge in written form of the transactions of all funds of the Student Senate, the recognized organizations, and the individual classes.
3.	The Treasurer shall, upon request, submit to any recognized organizations a quarterly report by seventh week, which summarizes the budgeted activity and current financial situation.
4.	The Treasurer shall collect the financial requests from each organization requesting funds for each fiscal year at least one week prior to the requested Student Senate meeting.
5.	The Treasurer shall, in conjunction with the Executive Board, in May of each year, prepare and submit to the Student Senate a tentative budget for the next school year.
6.	The Treasurer shall require, prior to the end of the school year, an operating budget for each organization.
i.	This statement is to be of the form designated by the Treasurer of the Student Government Association.
7.	The Treasurer shall create, amend, and uphold a Treasury Operating Code. The Treasury Operating Code shall act as the bylaws of the Treasury, and shall apply to the Treasurer, agents of the Treasury, and all financial interactions and transactions with and within the Student Government Association, with the exception of those administered by the Rose-Hulman Institute of Technology.
i.	The Treasury Operating Code and all amendments to it must be approved by the President with the advice of the Student Senate.
1.	Amendments to the Treasury Operating Code shall also require the approval of the Finance Committee.
2.	Approval by the Finance Committee requires a simple majority vote approving the amendment; however, the Treasurer may only vote to break a tie in the Finance Committee.
ii.	The Student Senate is permitted to amend the Treasury Operating Code with the advice but without the consent of the Treasurer.
1.	The Student Senate requires a simple majority to approve an amendment to the Treasury Operating Code, and do not need to approval of the Finance Committee.
iii.	The Treasury Operating Code shall not inhibit the ability of the Student Government Association to fund any club or special request.
8.	The Treasurer may appoint students of the Student Body as agents of the Student Government Association, and shall modify the accounting as empowered to by the acts of the Student Senate.

E.	The duties of the EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR shall be as follows:
1.	The Executive Director shall act as a voting delegate on national and regional matters in national organizations in which the Student Government Association is a member.
2.	The Executive Director shall be responsible for distributing and organizing elections and nominations for the following positions: President, Vice President, Class Presidents, and the Senators.
3.	The Executive Director shall facilitate all Student Government Association events put on for the Student Body.
4.	The Executive Director shall be responsible for arranging a transition ceremony at the end of the Winter quarter between the incoming and outgoing Executive Board.
The Executive Director shall be responsible for distributing and organizing nominations for the Student Leader of the Quarter and Honor Key.

ARTICLE IV
                    THE LEGISLATURE
SECTION 1: Legislative Powers
All Legislative powers shall be vested in the Student Senate, which shall be composed of a number of elected members, such number to be fixed and changed from time to time, as provided hereinafter. The members shall be known as Senators.

SECTION 2: Election and Term of Senators
Senators shall assume their office immediately following their election, and shall serve until the end of the academic year.

SECTION 3: Powers and Duties of the Student Senate
A.	The Student Senate, within the limits that may be delegated by the Institute from time to time, shall have the duties and all powers necessary as follows:
1.	The Student Senate shall enact by-laws as may be deemed necessary to carry out and/or make effective the objects and purposes of this organization, the Student Government
2.	The Student Senate shall confirm all appointments made by the President or the Vice President by a majority vote as the case may be.
3.	The Student Senate shall have the power to impeach and remove an Executive Officer of the Student Government Association. The process of impeachment is as follows:
i.	If the impeachment is called, the Judicial Council shall hold a trial.
ii.	Once the trial has concluded, a two-thirds majority vote of the Student Senate is required to remove said Executive Officer.
4.	The Student Senate shall approve of all Student Organizations that seek official recognition and/or eligible for Student Government Association funding.
i.	Organizations whose membership is not open to the entirety of Rose-Hulman students or organizations, which, in the opinion of Senate, have a primarily religious or political mission are not eligible to become Student Government Association affiliated clubs.
5.	The Student Senate shall approve of the budget of each Student Government affiliated club by a two-thirds majority vote.
6.	The Student Senate shall call a special meeting of the Senate if necessary by a written petition of eight Senators to the Vice President.
7.	The Student Senate shall elect a new President or Vice President from the Senate if the office becomes vacant at any time.
SECTION 4: Standing Committees
A.	Committee Member Selection
1.	There shall be one permanent standing committee: the Finance Committee. All other committees are appointed based on need, determined by the Executive Board.
2.	Each standing committee will have individual quotas for members:
i.	The Finance Committee shall consist of at least five members.
3.	All standing committee members shall be chosen by the chairman of the committee and approved by the President.
4.	All the applicants must be members of the Student Senate with the following exceptions:
i.	Should there prove to be an insufficient amount of applicants to fill the minimum quotas for each committee, the Executive Board shall request additional applicants form the Senate.
ii.	if by the end of the next meeting of the Senate, quotas are still not filled,
The Executive Board has the power of direct appointment. Any potential committee      members need not be from the Student Senate. However, any non-Senator applicant is subject to approval, by two-thirds vote from the Senators already serving on the respective committee.
B.	The Finance Committee
1.	Duties
i.	It will be the Finance Committee’s responsibility to review any and all monetary   requests presented to the Student Government Association in a committee meeting
ii.	The Committee meeting shall take place within the fourteen-day period separating Student Senate meetings to review these requests.
iii.	The Senators serving on the Finance Committee are required to attach each committee meeting.
1.	If a Senator is unable to attend a meeting, the member must notify the Treasurer at least 24 hours before the meeting takes place. If that Senator desires, that member may nominate another Senator not serving in the on the Finance Committee take on the position. The Treasurer shall consider the Senator’s Nominee and accept or deny the substitution with discretion.
2.	If the Senator does not appear at three or more committee meetings without the properly notifying the Treasurer (as described in part i), the member may be removed from the Finance Committee at the discretion of the Treasurer. The Treasurer may appoint a Senator not serving on the Finance Committee as a replacement.
iv.	The Committee Meeting
1.	Quorum consists of two-thirds of the members of the Finance Committee.
2.	After deliberation, the committee will determine a majority opinion and a minority opinion (if one exists), with arguments to support both cases. Both cases shall be presented to the Student Senate.
3.	After all hearings involved with the creation of the fiscal budget are heard it is the committee’s job to construct a complete fiscal budget.
a.	  The complete budget must be presented to Student Senate in full prior, the end of the academic year.  This budget must be passed by a two-thirds vote for Student Senate approval.
i.	  Approval cannot occur until at least 14 days after the Finance Committee presentation and the budget has been fully distributed amongst the Student Senate.
ii.	  The Finance Committee is also in charge of any alterations requested by the Student Senate should the need arise.
v.	The Committee shall create and maintain a document outlining its policy around recommending and approving monetary requests with the approval of the President to the Student Senate. This document shall be constructed out of the opinions of the Student Government. This document shall be constructed out of the opinions of the committee, with the advice of the Treasurer. This document must be made available to the Student Body without request.
1.	The Finance Committee shall follow this policy document when considering requests.
2.	The Finance Committee may amend this policy at any meeting.
vi.	The Finance Committee shall have the ability to approve, with an unanimous vote, reallocations requests whose value is less than 50% of the remaining funds for a Club Account or Special Request.
2.	Petitions to the Finance Committee
i.	Any group wishing to petition the Finance Committee must do so in a written statement, and an oral presentation if requested, in front of the Finance Committee
ii.	Non-Student Government funded clubs or any type of monetary requests are heard in the same matter as stated previously above
iii.	Clubs shall refer to the Finance Committee Policies for clarification and structure of petitions, which may be found on the Treasurer’s page on the Student Government Association My.Rose-Hulman Page.
3.	Records
i.	The Treasury shall be responsible for holding the records of the Finance Committee including, but not limited to, the requests heard by the Finance Committee, the opinion of the Finance Committee on the requests, and the policy document of the Finance Committee.
SECTION 5: Quorum of the Student Senate
For a general meeting of the Student Senate, quorum consists of half plus one of the elected Senators and Senator substitutes by Senators in accordance to Article VIII, Section 4.
For a meeting of the Student Senate where constitutional amendments are to be discussed or voted on, quorum instead consists of two-thirds of the elected Senators and Senator Substitutes appointed by Senators in accordance with Article VIII, Section 4.
For a meeting of the Student Senate where the annual fiscal budget is to be discussed or voted on, quorum instead consists of two-thirds of the elected Senators and Senator Substitutes appointed by Senators in accordance with Article VIII, Section 4.

SECTION 6: Limitations of the Powers of the Student Senate
All acts, laws, rules, regulations, charters or proposed amendments of the Student Senate shall be subject to review, modification, and/or veto by such officials as may be authorized by the Board of Trustees or Rose-Hulman Institute of Technology




ARTICLE V
				       THE JUDICIARY
SECTION 1: The Judicial Council
A.	The Judicial Council shall consist of six members and a clerk to be appointed by the President of the Student Government Association, approved by a two-thirds majority from the Student Senate.
1.	The candidates shall at least be a 3rd year student.
2.	Five of these members shall be regular voting members. The sixth shall be designated the Chief Justice and shall have the powers defined in part B.
B.	The Chief Justice of the Judicial Council shall be a voting member and appointed by the President of the Student Government Association. The Chief Justice shall preside over all Judicial Council trials.
C.	The Clerk of the Judicial Council shall:
1.	Handle all correspondence for and conduct the inquiry as provided hereinafter.
2.	Handle all notices of trials as provided hereinafter.
3.	Handle all correspondence of the Judicial Council, record all testimony, and serve as a liaison between the Judicial Council, the Student Senate, the Executive Board, and the Student Body
4.	Vote when a regular voting member is absent.
D.	The Term of office for the members of the Judicial Council shall be concurrent with that of Senators.


SECTION 2: Jurisdiction and Powers of the Judicial Council

A.	The Judicial Council shall have jurisdiction over all cases of student academic or disciplinary misconduct which are or may be detrimental to the Institute when referred.
B.	The Judicial Council shall have the power of Judicial Review over all acts of the Student Government Association, including executive policies and Senate legislation.
C.	The Judicial Council shall make a written report of its findings of fact and recommendations in accordance with the by-laws of the constitution.
D.	The Judicial Council cannot try a defendant for more than one charge at a time nor can a defendant be tried more than once for the same act or charge.
E.	The Judicial Council shall lead any impeachment trial against the President or Vice President before the Student Senate.
F.	The Judicial Council shall lead any impeachment trial against a Senator or Class President for any unethical reasons brought to them by the Executive Board.
SECTION 3: Procedures of the Judicial Council
A.	A quorum of the Judicial Council shall be four members thereof and concurrence of a quorum shall be necessary to render effective a decision of such Judicial Council. If a concurrence of four cannot be secured for any decision, a majority and minority opinion shall be recorded. The defendant shall have the opportunity of defending against the charge of the trial
B.	All decisions of the Judicial Council may be appealed to the Institute Rules and Discipline Committee
C.	After deliberation, The Judicial Council shall make a written report of its findings of fact and recommendations shall be submitted by the Clerk to the Dean of Student Affairs and the President of the Student Government Association.
D.	The Judicial Council shall have the power to determine all other procedures not consistent herewith.



ARTICLE VI
				PARILAMENTARY AUTHORITY
	The rules contained in the current edition of Robert’s Rules of Order Newly Revised shall govern the Student Government Association in all cases to which are applicable and in which they are not inconsistent with these constitution and by-laws and any special rules of order the Student Government Association may adopt by the Executive Board.

ARTICLE VII
					AMENDMENTS
SECTION 1
Such amendment or addition shall be submitted in writing by any member of the Senate or Executive Board to the Vice President of the Student Government Association. Any changes to the constitution concerning grammatical and formatting corrections/changes need not be presented and voted on by the Senate of the Student Government Association, but must be approved by the Executive Board. Only issues that change the procedures, content, or operation of the Student Government Association need voting. Any proposed changes must be sent to the Executive Board and will be presented to the Senate. It is up to the discretion of the Executive Board if the amendment needs to be voted upon. If not voted upon, the Senate can appeal any amendment approved by the Executive Board up to 14 days after approval by a 2/3 vote.

SECTION 2
The Vice President of the Student Government Association shall read aloud such amendment or addition, in full, at the first meeting of the Student Senate following the receipt of such amendment or addition.

SECTION 3
The Vice President of the Student Government Association shall submit such amendment or addition to the President for review, modification, or veto provided for in Section 4 of Article III, herein, and:
A.	Should such amendment or addition be successfully vetoed in any way, it shall be read in such modified form at the next regular or special meeting of the Student Government Association.
B.	Should such amendment or addition be vetoed by the President of the Student Government Association, such amendment or addition shall be dropped and the subject matter thereof shall receive no further
consideration until the lapse of one year.

SECTION 4
At a meeting of the Student Senate held at least fourteen days after the meeting at which such amendment of addition is read, such proposed amendment or addition shall be put to a vote.
A.	Should the vote recorded for the adoption of such amendment or addition be greater than or equal to two-thirds of the entire Student Senate, such proposed amendment or addition shall be considered in full force and effect and shall be added to, and become a part of, the constitution of this organization.
B.	Should the vote recorded for the adoption of such amendment or addition be less than two-thirds of the entire Student Senate, such proposed amendment or addition shall fail and no further or additional amendment or addition on the same subject shall be considered until the lapse of one year from the date of such vote.




ARTICLE VIII
						BY-LAWS
SECTION 1: Separation of Powers
The powers of the Executive Board, the Student Senate, and the Judicial Council shall be separate and thus no student may belong to more than one of these branches of the Student Government Association.

SECTION 2: Class and Grade Requirement
A.	Executive Officers
1.	All Executive Officers must have a minimum cumulative grade point average of 2.25 and must also have a minimum grade point average of 2.00 for the first quarter in the academic year of the election.
2.	The Executive Officers of the Student Government Association must also meet the following requirements:
i.	The President must be of at least third year standing as determined by the Registrar’s office at the time of the election and not plan to graduate prior to the end of the term, if elected.
ii.	The Vice President must be at least second year standing as determined by the Registrar’s office at the time of the election and not plan to graduate prior to the end of the term, if elected.
iii.	The Secretary must not plan to graduate prior to the end of the term, if appointed.
iv.	The Treasurer must be at least second year standing as determined by the Registrar’s office at the time of being appointed and not plan to graduate prior to the end of the term, if appointed.
v.	The Executive Director must not plan to graduate prior to the end of the term, if appointed.
B.	Senators
1.	The Senators of the Student Government must meet the following requirements:
i.	All Freshman Senators shall have no grade requirements.
ii.	All Upperclassmen Senators, as well as graduate Senators, shall have a minimum cumulative grade point average of 2.00.
C.	Class Presidents
1.	The Class Presidents of the Student Government Association must meet the following requirements:
i.	The Freshman Class President must be first year standing as determined by the Registrar’s office at the time of the election.
ii.	The Sophomore Class President must be second year standing as determined by the Registrar’s office at the time of the election.
iii.	The Junior Class President must be third year standing as determined by the Registrar’s office at the time of the election.
iv.	The Senior Class President must be at least a fourth year standing as determined by the Register’s office at the time of the election.
SECTION 3: ELECTION PROCEDURES
A.	The Election of the President and the Vice President
1.	Any member of the Student Body as at large, meeting the minimum requirements for an office (as Outlined in Section 2, Article VIII) and is in good standing and not on probation, shall be eligible for nomination to the President or Vice President position hereunder as follows:
i.	A petition for nomination for the President and Vice President shall be circulated among the Student Body and shall be endorsed by at least twenty-five members. No duplication of signatures shall be permitted, and each individual shall affix their own name and no other. Any number of such petitions may be circulated for any number of prospective candidates.
ii.	The nominee for whom such petition shall be circulated shall endorse such petition at the head therefor, with such language as shall express a desire to seek such office and to faithfully execute the duties thereof if elected.
iii.	Petitions of nomination must be made available to the Student Body at least one week prior to the election and shall be returned by candidates at least 3 days prior to the election.
2.	The Election
i.	The election shall be conducted by the Executive Director on or before the Tuesday of seventh week of the Winter Quarter each year.
ii.	The election shall be determine the two candidates obtaining a simple majority for each office who will proceed to the run-off election, unless one candidate receives the majority of the votes, at which point, said candidates shall become elected to such office.
3.	The Run-Off Election
i.	The run-off election shall be conducted by the Executive Director on the Tuesday of the eighth week of the Winter Quarter each year.
ii.	At this election the candidate receiving the majority number of votes for the office which they were declared a candidate in the original Election shall become elected to such office.
B.	The Election of the Senators
1.	Composition of the Student Senate
i.	The members of the Rose-Hulman Student Body shall be put in various residential districts to be defined as a residence hall, fraternity, sorority, or commuter district.
1.	A member of the Rose-Hulman Student Body shall only represent one residential district.
2.	A member of the Rose-Hulman Student Body must be a member of their respective residential district.
ii.	Each district shall elect one Senator for each seventy-one members of said district.
iii.	A district shall receive one additional Senator if that district contains more than thirty members over and above the multiples of seventy-one as stated above.
iv.	The Student Senate shall be also be composed of four Class-Presidents which shall all be regular, voting members of the Senate.
2.	Nomination Procedures for Senators
i.	Nomination Procedure for Residential and Commuter Senators
1.	Students representing residential halls or commutators shall be nominated for a Senate position by a petition to be signed by the nominee
2.	Petitions of nomination must be made available to Student Body at least two weeks prior to the election and returned at least one week prior to the Election
ii.	Nomination Procedure for Fraternity and Sorority Senators
1.	Students representing Greek Life shall be nominated by their respective fraternity or sorority for a Senate position
3.	Election of Senators
i.	Elections of Residential and Commuter Senators
1.	An announcement of the election will be made with the discretion of the executive director in advance of the election and shall contain the following information:
a.	Time and place of election
b.	Form of nomination petition
c.	Deadline for submitting nominations
2.	A deadlines for nominations shall be at least one week before the announcement of the election.
3.	Elections of residential and commutator Senators shall be held by the end of the third week of the Fall Quarter each academic year.
4.	Members of the Student Body shall vote for the Senators from their own district and shall be allowed to vote for as many candidates as there are Senators from their own district.
5.	Those candidates receiving the most votes from their district shall become Senators of that district.
ii.	Elections of Fraternity and Sorority Senators
1.	Elections of Senators shall be held at the discretion of the fraternity or sorority.
2.	 Members of their respective fraternity or sorority shall decide their respective Senator using their respective guidelines.
C.	Class Elections
1.	Freshman Class President
i.	The freshman class shall elect a President.
ii.	The election shall be conducted by the Executive Director on or before the end of the third week of the Fall Quarter.
2.	Upperclassman Class Presidents
i.	Each of the three upper classes shall elect a President.
ii.	The elections for the upcoming year’s Presidents shall be held on or before the eighth week of the Spring Quarter.
3.	Procedure
i.	An announcement of the election must be made at least one week in advance of the election and shall contain the following information:
1.	Time and place of election
2.	Form of nomination petition
3.	Deadline for submitting nominations
ii.	Deadlines for nominations shall be at least one week before the announcement of the election.
iii.	Candidates shall be nominated by petitions requiring twenty-five members of the class concerned.
iv.	Candidates receiving the majority of votes from the concerned shall be named the Class President.
v.	In the case of a Run-Off Election, if two viable candidates for any position cannot be found, then a simple vote by acclamation will be conducted
1.	If the candidate receives the majority of votes, then the individual shall assume the office. If there is failure to do, or if no candidates can be found, then defer to the procedure for filling a vacant Senator position.
vi.	In the event that any Class President leaves Rose-Hulman Institute of Technology, the leaving Class President will be allowed to appoint a replacement. The appointed replacement will take office only if the Student Senate approves the decision. In the event the replacement is rejected, the Executive Board shall appoint candidates until one is approved by the Student Senate.
4.	Insufficient Candidates
i.	If two viable candidates for any position cannot be found, then a simple vote by acclamation will be conducted. If the candidate receives a majority of votes, then the individual shall assume the office. If there is a failure to do so, or if no candidates can be
found, then defer to the procedure for filling a vacant Senator position.







SECTION 5: Duties and Powers of Class Presidents
A.	The duties and powers of the CLASS PRESIDENTS shall be as follows:
1.	Class Presidents shall use their class’ funds for events and causes of interest to their constituents
2.	Class Presidents shall hold a meeting shortly after elections in order to exchange ideas and facilitate the underclassmen’s successful leadership
i.	This meeting is to be organized by the Senior Class President
3.	Class Presidents shall act as regular voting members in the Student Senate
4.	Class Presidents shall obtain the approval of their class advisor before any monetary transition related to their class’ funds occur.
i.	 These advisors shall be as follows:
1.	The Freshman Class Advisor shall be Eric Liobis
2.	The Sophomore Class Advisor shall be Emilie Roberts
3.	The Junior Class Advisor shall be Cory Pardieck
4.	The Senior Class Advisor shall be Kristen Latta
SECTION 5: Attendance of the Student Senate
A.	The voice and opinion of each delegate, being crucial in the operation and appropriate procedure of the Student Senate as a wholes, makes attendance vital to ensuring that the Student Senate is successful

A.	Late Policy for All Absences
1.	Members of the Student Senate must be present for rollcall by the Secretary.
2.	If a member is late, that member must check in with the Secretary before taking a seat amongst the rest of the Student Senate.
3.	At the discretion of the Vice President, with the oversight of the Executive Board, if a Senator is absent from two meetings, without providing an adequate reason, then that member shall be removed from office.
i.	The only excused absence is having a class.  All other reasons shall be considered unexcused.
ii.	If a Senator must miss a meeting for any reason, a replacement from that member’s district must be found for that meeting. The absence will then be considered excused.
1.	A replacement may represent only one absent Senator at a given meeting
2.	The Senator must inform the Secretary of the identity of the substitute prior to the meeting.
iii.	If a Senator is removed from office due to absences, the Vice President will select a replacement from the absentee’s district.
1.	A replacement must be confirmed by two-thirds vote of the Student Senate.
2.	If a replacement is not confirmed, the Vice President will continue to appoint senators until one is conformed.
4.	After each called meeting, it shall be the duty of the Vice President to deliver a written notice to any member or members absent from said meeting.


SECTION 6: Recall of Senators
In case a district desires to contest the seat of any one of its Senators in the Student Senate, it shall submit its reasons for contest, in writing, signed by a majority of the members of that district. In such case, a vote of a majority of the members of the Student Senate shall be sufficient for the expulsion.


SECTION 7: Absence of a Senator from the Institute
Continued absence of a Senator from the Institute for three consecutive weeks shall be considered as withdrawal from the Student Senate, unless a written notice to the contrary be filed with the Secretary.

SECTION 8: The Fiscal Year
The fiscal year shall begin on the first day of July of the given year and end on the last day of June in the following year.
SECTION 9: The Student Government Association Funds
A.	There are four general headings under which the Student Government Association funds shall be kept
1.	The four general headings shall be: The Reserve Fund, The Executive Fund, The Student Activities Board Fund, and The General Fund.
B.	The General Headings
1.	The Reserve Fund
i.	The Reserve fund shall be established for the Student Government Association.
ii.	The Reserve Fund shall consist of $10,000 deposited in a separated account.
iii.	In order to use any of the funds of the Reserve, a two-thirds majority vote of the Student Senate is required.
2.	The Executive Fund
i.	The Executive Fund shall be established for the use by the Executive Board of the Student Government Association to cover the daily administration costs of the Student Government.
ii.	 It shall consist of five percent of the total income of the Student Government Association plus $3,000.
iii.	The Executive Board shall be entitled to call emergency sessions of the Student Senate in order to request money in excess for the Executive Fund at any time.
iv.	The Executive Fund expenditures that are less than or equal to $1000 shall not be subject to the approval of the Student Senate.
1.	Expenditures greater than $1,000 must be approved by a majority vote by the Student Senate.
v.	At the end of the fiscal year, all remaining funds shall be transferred to the General fund.
3.	Student Activities Board Fund
i.	The Student Activities Board funds shall be set to eighteen percent of the total Student Government Association income.
ii.	This amount shall be deposited as a lump sum in the Student Activities Board account.
1.	The Treasurer shall be responsible of depositing this lump sum.
iii.	These funds will be allocated to the Student Activities Board account with the rate prescribed below:
1.	A portion of the money remaining from this allocation at the end of the year will remain in the Student Activities Board account for the following academic year. This portion will be set to zero percent, unless the Student Activities Board requests and the Student Senate approves by a simple majority a different portion. The estimated amount of the budget surplus must be announced to the Student Senate during the Spring Budgeting Process.
2.	Upon receiving the funds, the Student Activities Board President and Vice President of Business shall be responsible for the appropriate use of the funds.
3.	The Student Activities Board will present expected breakdowns for the use of the funds allocated to them for the following year to the Student Senate during the Spring Quarter.
a.	The breakdown will specify the estimated budget for each of the Student Activities Board committees and the overall administrative costs for each quarter of the academic year.
b.	Included in this presentation will be a list of expected events for each committee and quarter.
c.	The Student Senate will vote to recognize this expected breakdown of funding.
4.	A representative from the Student Activities Board will provide the Student Government Association with updates on the expenses of the Student Activities Board at once per month to the Finance Committee.
a.	This representation can also be a member of the Student Government Association Board or the Student Senate, though they have no additional voice or voting abilities at the Student Activities Board representative.

4.	The General Fund
i.	The General Fund is established as the remaining Student Government Association fund from which all other bodies shall draw once the Reserve Fund and the Executive Fund have been established at their respective levels.
1.	No funds shall be allocated without a two-thirds vote of the Student Senate unless otherwise specified.
ii.	The Class Funds and then the Club Funds shall be the order of importance.
iii.	The Class and Club Funds
1.	The Class Funds
a.	The funds in these accounts may be spent in the discretion of the Advisors of the Student Government Association.
2.	The Club Funds
a.	These moneys shall be consist of any moments granted by the Student Senate to their respected funds.
i.	Upon receiving the funds, the Club Treasurer or Club President is responsible for the appropriate use of the funds.
ii.	At the end of the fiscal year, the funds that have not been spent shall be transferred to the General Fund.
iii.	These funds may be frozen or garnished at any time, at the discretion of the Executive Board.
iv.	Special Requests
1.	Any interested party may request funds form the Student Government Association by submitting a written request to the Treasurer by two thirds vote by the Student Senate.
SECTION 10: Funding Prohibitions
A.	The Student Government Association shall be forbidden from funding any item or activity that is in violation of the following:
1.	The Student Government Association shall not break any laws that are applicable to the location of the transaction.
2.	The Student Government Association shall not break any laws that are applicable to Terre Haute, Indiana.
3.	The Student Government Association shall not break any rules and regulation of the Student Government Association.
4.	The Student Government Association shall not fund any alcohol, tobacco, weapons for malicious use, and services performed by club members in the normal course of club activities, such as office work or stipends for officers.

SECTION 11: Application for Funds
A.	The Budgeting Process
1.	The President and Treasurer of each organization shall submit, during the Spring Quarter, a report of the condition of the organization as to interest and disposition of the students toward the organization, as to finances and as to the future prospects of the organization.
i.	The report shall also include a proposed budget for the next fiscal year.
2.	The Timeline for the Process
i.	The President and/or Treasurer of each organization shall submit their report with their proposed operating budget for the upcoming fiscal year during the Spring Quarter based on the following timeline.
1.	During 1st week, notifications will be sent to all Student Government Association organizations detailing the upcoming process for approving their budgets for the following fiscal year.
2.	By the end of 3rd week, all Student Government Organizations budget proposals are due.
3.	During 4th through 6th week, Student Government Associations organizations’ budget proposals will be evaluated by the Finance Committee.
4.	During 6th week, the Finance Committee will hold an open Student Government Association budget proposal meetings; Senators will be encouraged to attend. The Finance Committee and The Executive Board will hold an open meeting to discuss the finalized budget.
5.	During 7th week, all proposed Student Government Associations finalized budgets will be voted upon during the weekly Senate meeting. The Executive Board will bring the budget to the Student Senate during 7th week and should be approved after seven days. If a Club representative is needed to speak during the Student Senate, they cannot be on the Executive Board or the Student Senate.


SECTION 12: Class Fees
A.	Classes shall be provided funds at the beginning of each year as follows:
1.	In addition to funds that have been rolled over from the previous year, the senior class shall be given ten dollars per senior plus an additional $2000.
2.	In addition to funds that have been rolled over from the previous year, the junior class shall be given six dollars per junior plus an additional $2000. None of the additional $2000 shall be rolled over to the following academic year.
3.	In addition to the funds that have been rolled over from the previous year, the sophomore class shall be four dollars per sophomore plus an additional. None of the additional $2000 shall be rolled over to the following academic year.
4.	The freshman class shall be given $4 per freshman plus an additional $2000. None of the additional $2000 shall be rolled over to the following academic year.
B.	The Treasurer or the Student Government Association shall keep an accurate account of the financial transactions of each class.
C.	All fees shall be paid at the time of tuition payment.





SECTION 13: Recognized Organizations
A.	A list of all Student Government recognized organizations shall be kept by the Secretary of the Student Government Association.
B.	Each student of the Institute shall be eligible for membership in any recognized organization receiving the Student Government Association funds.
C.	Criteria for Recognition
1.	The organization must be approved by the Student Affairs Committee of Rose-Hulman Institute of Technology.
2.	The organization shall have a faculty advisor.
3.	Organizations seeking recognition by the Student Government Association shall proceed as follows:
i.	Once being approved by the Student Affairs Committee, the organization must wait one full academic quarter before it can come before the Student Senate to gain probationary status.
ii.	An organization may then be recognized as a probationary status club by a simple majority of the Student Senate.
iii.	An organization on probationary status may ask for full recognition after a two quarter probationary status period.
iv.	For a student organization on probationary status to gain fill recognition of the Student Government Association, it must receive a two-thirds vote of the Student Senate
v.	A student organization shall be required to submit a budget for the two quarter probationary period.
vi.	To be eligible for full recognition of the Student Government Association, a club must request such full recognition no more than two quarters after its two quarter probationary period has passed or lose their probationary club status.
vii.	A student organization seeking probationary club status may only be voted on for probationary club status by the Student Senate two times within the academic year. Said organization is also limited to two senate votes regarding the awarding of full club status within one academic year.
D.	Revocation of Student Government Association Recognized Organization Status
1.	The Student Senate reserves the right to review any recognized organization’s purpose, policies, or program and remove Student Government Association recognition, by two-thirds vote of the Student Senate, whenever it feels the organization is no longer serving the best interests of the Student Body or the Institute.
2.	Should an organization be inactive for two years, it shall be revoked of its status as a Student Government Association Recognized Organization.
3.	An organization shall be defined as active provided they satisfy the following requirements:
i.	Submit an annual budget report.
ii.	Submit a current list of club officers to the acting Treasurer when requested.
iii.	Have a faculty or staff advisor.
iv.	Have a current constitution on file in the Student Affairs office.
4.	Funds for inactive clubs shall become frozen until they are inactive or return to general fund.
SECTION 14: Terms and Conditions of Funding
A.	The Extent of the Terms and Conditions
1.	These terms and conditions shall apply to the usage of funds allocated by the Senate from the General Fund to any entity, including student organizations and clubs.
B.	The Terms and Conditions of Funds Allocated by the Student Government Association
1.	Funds shall not be spent on prohibited items or in prohibited ways.
2.	Funds allocated for each line item shall be spent in a manner that fits with the description of each line item.
3.	The allocated amount of each line item will not be exceeded.
4.	Funds allocated for any part of a trip, including, but not limited to, lodging, travel, and registration, may only be used for an Institute recognized club or student organization trip, and said trip must follow all applicable Institute travel policies.
5.	Funds allocated to an event open to all campus must have a My Rose-Hulman homepage post a week or more before the event.
6.	Funds allocated shall be kept in an account owned by the Student Government Association until the funds are used in a reimbursement, spent using a departmental purchasing card, or unallocated.
7.	Funds shall only be reimbursed as in accordance with all applicable Institute polices for reimbursement, specifically including the policies of the Business Office of the Institute, and as in accordance with the Treasury Operating Code.
8.	Departmental purchasing cards shall only be used as a method of spending allocated funds as in accordance with all applicable Institute polices for reimbursement, specifically including the policies of the Business Office of the Institute, and as in accordance with the Treasury Operating Code.
9.	Funds stored in accounts owned by the Student Government Association shall be the property of the Student Government Association.
10.	Funds allocated in to accounts owned by the Student Government Association but from a source other than investments of the Student Government Association or payments and gifts made to the Student Government Association shall be held for usage by the depositor until the end of the fiscal year. Exceptions to this may be made by at the digression of the Treasurer.
C.	Enforcement of the Terms and Conditions
1.	The members of the entity that receives funding shall be responsible for following these terms and conditions. For student organizations and clubs, this responsibility shall fall primarily upon the treasurer and president of the student organization and club.
2.	The Treasurer of the Student Government Association shall be responsible for enforcing these terms and conditions and determining if an action is in violation of these terms and condition.
3.	Determinations regarding the enforcement of these terms and conditions made by the Treasurer may be appealed to the Finance Committee or the Judicial Council.
4.	Decisions regarding the enforcement of these terms and conditions made by the Finance Committee may be appealed to the Senate or the Judicial Council.


