General

1. SGA funds will not be used to purchase illegal substances.

2. SGA funds will not be used to purchase alcohol.

3. SGA funds will not be used to pay for services performed by club members in the normal course of club activities, such as office work or stipends for officers.

4. Unless vital to the purpose of the club or an activity, SGA funds will not be used for:

a. Food for events not open to all campus.

b. Clothing or items that will become the property of an individual.

c. Miscellaneous or general expenses (requests determined to be vague).

5. SGA will not provide funding for expenditures that benefit an individual unless that expenditure allows the individual to benefit the club.

6. All items in a funding request, reallocation request, or budget proposal must be itemized with prices quoted from a vendor or based on previous expense records. The price quotes should include shipping, taxes, and gratuities.

7. SGA will reimburse variable payments (such as tips or gratuities) at the discretion of the SGA Treasurer.

Travel and Lodging

1. SGA will fund Vehicular Travel based on the circumstances of the trip using a standard equation as follows:

C ∙ D ∙ G ∙ E / MPG

C = # of Cars (expecting 4 people per car)

D = Distance (round trip in miles) G = Average price of gas in US (at time of request on gasprices.aaa.com)

E = Error margin (normally 20%, which means a factor of 1.2)

MPG = Average miles per gallon (set at 22 miles per gallon)

2. SGA will fund Air Travel at the rate of $0.10 per mile traveled per person.

3. SGA will fund no more than the “Per Diem Rate” per room for lodging in the city and the month being requested as defined U.S. General Service Administration (www.gsa.gov/travel/plan-book/per-diem-rates).

a. Rooms shall be considered as having four people per room, unless the organization can prove a different necessary grouping, such as, people who cannot be roomed with each other.

b. For international travel, the US State Department’s equivalent site shall be considered instead of the GSA’s.

Conferences

1. The SGA will fund no more than 80% of the first conference for a student organization, and then no more than 20% of the second conference for the same organization. The SGA will fund not fund any more than the first two conferences for any student organization.

2. The SGA can fund, in full, all travel and lodging for an advisor traveling with a student organization to any conference. The recommended amounts specified in the Travel Policies also apply to advisors.

Promotional Funds

1. Clubs may request to have an allocation for unspecified promotional funds of 5% of their non-promotional funds or $150, whichever is greater.

2. Funding for all items that become the property of the individual shall be considered part of promotional funds.

3. Clubs may request promotional funds for specific purposes.

4. Clubs on probation may request unspecified promotional funds.

Annual Budget

1. A maximum of 90% of the estimated incoming funds for the SGA, as determined by the Treasury, will be allocated to clubs during spring budgeting.